Add lwip doc. (#9186)
project-chip/connectedhomeip: docs/discussion/lwip_ipv6.md

# LwIP changes for CHIP

LwIP is the network layer used in the CHIP platform. Although it has some good
IPv6 support, there are areas that are lacking that we should implement for
CHIP. The recommendations here are listed roughly from most to least important.

## Route Information Options (RIO)

> The addressing proposal requires devices to store route options from Route

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The specification requires devices to store route options from Route
```

Information Options (RIO) sent in router advertisements. This functionality is
not currently present in upstream LwIP. The patch to add this is relatively
small, but we may need to upstream this in order to require its use in CHIP. It

> can be added to the CHIP version, but not all platforms use the same middleware.

Reviewer: The CHIP version is used by none of the middleware IIUC, so we don't have real tests against changes of it.

### Recommendation:

-   write a RIO patch, add to CHIP middleware, upstream to lwip
    -   Ensure patch is RFC compliant (especially re: expiry)

## DNS

> LwIP’s DNS handling isn’t great and breaks down when the router supports

Reviewer: CHIP doesn't require DNS support, except for time sync NTP, and optional HTTPS support for OTA download, both of which are optional in spec and likely not supported in the very short term roadmap. I would consider this to be a low priority item and we should move it to the bottom of the file/list to make it more obvious it's not a top item.

router to do address translation. CHIP mandates the use of IPv6 link local
addresses for communication to nodes on the same network (wifi or thread). When
there is more than one netif in the system (ex. loopback, softAP, STA), the link
local address needs more information to determine which link the address is
local to. This is normally added as the link local scope and can be seen on
addresses ex. FE80::xxxx:xxxx:xxxx:xxxx%<scope>, where the <scope> identifies
the netif (something like %wlan0 or %eno1 etc.).

Without this indicator, the link local address can only be resolved if there is
one netif. LwIP will also allow a direct address match to the netif source
address, but this does not scale well at all and is VERY racy. LwIP also
supports output to a specific netif, but this is not brought up to the socket
layer.

Upstream LwIP has support for IPv6 address scopes, but only as an option.
However, the code to support this is not present in the CHIP LwIP codebase.
Other platform versions assume this option is not present (ex. M5 has an
assertion on ip address sizes that disallow the use of a scope tag).

### Recommendation:

> -   Update CHIP lwip version for scopes support, ensure CHIP code works with

Reviewer: Same comment as before for "CHIP lwip version" --> repos does not provide the middleware.

    scopes on our various platforms OR alternate: bring netif sendto up through
    the api / sockets layers
-   Audit CHIP code to ensure LL addresses are properly scoped to their netif in
    all areas (DNS returned addresses especially)

## Duplicate address detection

The DAD in LwIP is actually implemented correctly right now, but there are
routers that incorrectly implement multicast for IPv6 and send packets back to
the sender. This triggers the LwIP DAD because it doesn’t check the source. In

> our previous products, we fixed this as the wifi layer as a filter, but it’s

Reviewer: Suggest better wording that "our previous products"

easy enough to add the fix into the LwIP layer. This would help implementers so
they don’t all have to debug the same issues. Recommendation:

-   Create an LwIP patch to check NS/NA packets for source and discard if they
    originate from the same device. Upstream and add to CHIP.

## IPv6 Ping

> LwIP will automatically respond to pings, but has no built-in way to send them.

Reviewer: Not sure why we need to implement ICMPv6 ping for Matter, although it is a good idea. It is not required by the spec to send ICMPv6 pings.

Author: We don't need it for chip, but given that this is probably one of the first times a lot of devs will be working exclusively with IPv6 - ping can be a really helpful tool. I'll add a comment clarifying that this is something we should consider as a tool for development, not as a requirement of the spec.
